.TH mart.toml 5 "17 December 24"
.SH NAME
\fBmart.toml\fP - Mart.toml documentation
.SH DESCRIPTOIN
\fBmart.toml\fP is a toml config file read when \fBmart(1)\fP is launched or when the \fBreload_config\fP keybind is pressed.

See \fIhttps://toml.io/\fP for information on the toml config spec.
.SH SPECAIL VALUES
.TP
.BR hex-color-string
Color values can be ether RGB or RGBA hex codes.
.TP
.BR keybind-string
Keybinds are formated as \fIMOD+MOD+MOD+KEY\fP where MOD is \fI[S|C|A|SHIFT|CTRL|ALT]\fP for between 0 and 3 modkeys per bind.

See keybinds section for examples of keybind-strings in default values
.SH LOCATION
The mart.toml config file is choosen chosed in following order
.TP
Path proveded from passing \fB'-i'\fP
ignored if path is not valid
.TP
$HOME/.config/mart/mart.toml
Only checked on what SDL considers UNIX systems
.TP
{BASE_PATH}/mart.toml
Where BASE_PATH is different depending on the OS but usally being the location of the executable.
.SH MPD
\fB[mpd]\fP section options
.TP
\fBhost\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fINULL\fP

Host of MPD server to connect to, or 0 for default.
.TP
\fBport\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI0\fP

Port of MPD server to connect to, or 0 for default.
.TP
\fBtimeout_ms\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI0\fP

Timeout in ms for MPD server, or 0 for default.
.SH GENERAL
\fB[general]\fP section options
.TP
\fBcolor\fP \fIhex-color-string\fP
default value is \fI"#000000"\fP

Default background color.
.TP
\fBalt_color\fP \fIhex-color-string\fP
default value is \fI"#FFFFFF"\fP

Alternitve background color, toggleable with \fBswap_color\fP keybind.
.TP
\fBplaceholder_image\fP \fIpath-string\fP
default value is \fINULL\fP

Path to an image to be used as a placeholder when no album is loaded or album has no cover image.
Most standard image formats are supported, see SDL3_Image for more information on supported formats.
.TP
\fBfps\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI60\fP

Max fps for program to run at.
.TP
\fBkeep_aspect_ratio\fP \fIbool\fP
default value is \fItrue\fP

Whether or not Mart's window is keept at the cover art's aspect ratio by default.
.TP
\fBshow_gui\fP \fIbool\fP
default value is \fItrue\fP

Whether or not to show gui by default.
.SH GUI
\fB[GUI]\fP section options
.TP
\fBslider_text_margin\fP \fIfloat\fP
default value is \fI0\fP

Margin from slider border for text labels to be offset by.
.TP
\fBborder_size\fP \fIfloat\fP
default value is \fI2.5\fP

Size (thickness) of border on all gui controlls
.TP
\fBfont_size\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI30\fP

Size of font height in pixels for all gui controll except the top title controll
.TP
\fBtitle_font_size\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI60\fP

Size of font height in pixels for only the top title controll
.TP
\fBfont\fP \fIpath-string\fP
default value is \fINULL\fP

Valid path to a true type font to replace the built in VL-Gothic. if no path is provided Mart will use internally embedded VL-Gothic.
.TP
\fBfont_point_size\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI50\fP

Size of font in points for use when rasterising (loading) the font
.TP
\fBshow_gui\fP \fIbool\fP
default value is \fItrue\fP

Whether or not gui is shown by default, can still be toggled with \fBshow_gui\fP keybind.
.TP
\fBrepeat_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"r"\fP

label for repeat mode toggle button
.TP
\fBrandom_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"z"\fP

label for random mode toggle button
.TP
\fBsingle_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"s"\fP

label for single mode toggle button
.TP
\fBconsume_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"c"\fP

label for consume mode toggle button
.TP
\fBcrossfade_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"x"\fP

label for crossfade mode toggle button
.TP
\fBprevious_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"<"\fP

label for previous song button
.TP
\fBplay_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"+"\fP

label for play/pause toggle button, when song is playing
.TP
\fBpause_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI"-"\fP

label for play/pause toggle button, when song is paused
.TP
\fBnext_label\fP \fIstring\fP
default value is \fI">"\fP

label for next song button
.SH THEMEING
\fB[active_theme]\fP, \fB[inactive_theme]\fP and \fB[hover_theme]\fP section options
.TP
\fBtext\fP \fIhex-color-string\fP

color of text labels in gui controlls of the sections state.
.TP
\fBbackground\fP \fIhex-color-string\fP

color of gui controll backgrounds in the sections state.
.TP
\fBbackground\fP \fIhex-color-string\fP

color of gui controll borders in the sections state.
.SH keybinds
\fB[keybinds]\fP section options
.TP
\fBuse_volume_num_keys\fP \fIbool\fP
default value is \fItrue\fP

Enables number keys to set MPD volume to [1-0]*10% e.g pressing 5 sets volume to 50%, except in the case 0 which sets to 100%. if any other keybind is set to a number key it will have priority.
.TP
\fBvolume_step\fP \fIint\fP
default value is \fI10\fP

Volume step for when \fBvolume_up\fP and \fBvolume_down\fP keybind is pressed.
.TP
\fBplay\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"p"\fP

description
.TP
\fBnext\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"S+>"\fP

Play / pause music
.TP
\fBprevious\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"S+<"\fP

Next track
.TP
\fBrepeat\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"r"\fP

Toggle repeat mode
.TP
\fBrandom\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"z"\fP

Toggle random mode
.TP
\fBsingle\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"y"\fP

Toggle single mode
.TP
\fBconsume\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"SHIFT+r"\fP

Toggle consume mode
.TP
\fBcrossfade\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"x"\fP

Toggle crossfade mode
.TP
\fBswap_color\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"space"\fP

Swap between color and alt_color for background
.TP
\fBtoggle_gui\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"h"\fP

Toggle Hide/Unhide GUI
.TP
\fBtoggle_aspect_ratio\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"return"\fP

Toggle whether to fix window apect ratio to cover art
.TP
\fBquit\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"escape"\fP

Quit the program
.TP
\fBreload_config\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"u"\fP

Reload mart config
.TP
\fBabout\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"F1"\fP

Open About Window
.TP
\fBvolume_up\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"="\fP

Increase volume by \fBvolume_step\fP%
.TP
\fBvolume_down\fP \fIkeybind-string\fP
default value is \fI"-"\fP

Decrease volume by \fBvolume_step\fP%
.SH AUTHOR
Matthew Conroy
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mart(1), mpd.conf(5)
